README.md, before:

# Welcome, Pathways Students!

Quicklinks within this document:

- [Welcome!](#welcome-pathways-students)
    - [Today's Agenda](#workshop-agenda)
    - [Your Instructors](#your-instructors-today)
    - [Examples! MBA Student Websites](#mba-student-websites)
- [Tutorial](#tutorial)
    - [Setup](#1-setup)
    - [Building Website](#2-building-webpage)
    - [Pushing Code](#3-pushing-code)

Other helpful things:

- [Example Website](http://codenewhaven.github.io/pathways-workshop/)
- [Code for example website](https://github.com/codenewhaven/pathways-workshop/tree/gh-pages)

External resources (HTML help):

- http://webhelp.org/html/
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML
- http://www.webmonkey.com/2010/02/html_cheatsheet/
- http://www.w3schools.com/tags/

Thanks for coming to our workshop! You're here today because you want to learn
to code.

We only have two hours with you, so we won't be able to show you how to
build the next Facebook, but we will be able to show you that coding is
not as hard as you might think. By the end of the workshop, you should
having a working website that you can show to your friends and family.

Our goal is to give you the confidence that if you want to learn to code,
you can do it. It's not hard.

## Workshop Agenda

We are going to show you what you need to do on the projector, and then
you're going to do it! Don't worry about reading this whole document -- the
content is here for you to peruse on your own time. Just do what we show you
and you'll be good. If you need more details, you can always read this.

Start Time  | End Time| Content
------------- | -------------| -------------
3:00  | 3:15| Settle in, introductions, etc
3:15  | 3:45| Quick lecture, overview of what you will do.
3:45  | 4:00 | Break
4:00  | 4:45 | Build your website
4:45  | 5:00 | Publish your website on the Internet!

Don't worry if this document looks really confusing! We are going to spend
the first 30 minutes showing you everything you need to do. Then, you're
going to do it! And we're here to help you, so we'll be walking around
between computers to answer any questions you have.

## Your Instructors Today
![Your Instructors](img/whobanner.png)

We started Code New Haven, which is an organization dedicated to teaching
high schoolers from New Haven how to code. This semester we have been
teaching a class at Metro Business Academy (MBA) how to code websites.

**PLEASE ASK US ANY QUESTIONS YOU HAVE! We're here to help you!!!**

## MBA Student Websites

Here are some of the websites the MBA kids have made!

- <http://laavila.github.io/>
- <http://creeperfan5236.github.io/>
- <http://spectryn.github.io/mywebsite%20copy%202.HTML>
- <http://mynamesmari.github.io/ImarisWebsite.html>
- <http://deondre.github.io/cubes.html>
- <http://maxjoyner.github.io/cubes.html>
- <http://brittneyfuller.github.io/>

They're a work in progress, but a great start! By the end of today, you're
all going to have a website like this.

# Tutorial

Don't worry if this all looks confusing. We're going to go over it with you
for the first 30 minutes, and then we're here to help.

The goal today is to build a website for yourself. Here's an example
of what you're going to build:

Here's an example of what you are going to build today:

- <http://codenewhaven.github.io/pathways-workshop>

You can see all the **source code** for this website here:

- <https://github.com/codenewhaven/pathways-workshop/tree/gh-pages>

In the next hour, this is what you're going to do:

1. Setup
    1. Create an account on **GitHub** (that's this website)

    2. Create a **GitHub repository** for yourself.

    3. **Clone** the repository, so you have a **directory** on your computer.

2. Building Webpage

    1. Create some **HTML files** in the repository.

    2. Open the HTML files in your browser -- that's your website!!

3. Pushing Code

    1. **Push the code to github** so anyone can see it! :)

If any of this looks confusing to you now, don't worry, it won't be soon!
It's actually all very simple.

### IF THIS LOOKS LIKE A LOT OF TEXT, DON'T WORRY!!
- You don't have to read all of it now. It might help you later.
- We are going to show you how to do everything you need to do.
- If you have questions, just ask us!

## 1. Setup

First, we're going to **make an account** on [GitHub](http://www.github.com), so go ahead and click on that link and follow the steps to ceate an accout. Make sure to either write down or remember your password, as we'll need it later.

Next, we need to **install GitHub for Windows** on our machines, so we can develop locally (on these computers). The download page can be found [here](https://windows.github.com/). Click on the download link and follow the instructions to install.

Then, **open the GitHub application**. We can find the application either on the Desktop or by hitting the Windows key (between Ctrl and Alt on your keyboard) and typing in "github" followed by hitting the `Enter` key. Once you've opened the application, go ahead and sign in using the account you've just created. 

## 2. Building Webpage

Now we're ready to build your webpage!

### Hang on, what's a webpage?!

- A webpage is just a file, that ends in `.html`, like `index.html`
    - A word document is also a file, e.g. `youressay.docx`
    - Images are files too, e.g. `funnycat.jpg` or `l0lzkitten.gif`
- The important part is the **file extension** e.g. `.html` or `.docx` or `.jpg`
    - Your computer decides what to do with the file based on the extension
    - When it sees `.jpg` or `.gif` it knows to show you an image
    - When it sees `.docx` it knows to open microsoft word
    - When it sees `.html` it knows to open your browser and show you a webpage!

An HTML file looks like this:

(Don't worry -- you don't need to understand all of this!)

(You can also find this file [here](https://github.com/codenewhaven/pathways-workshop/blob/gh-pages/index.html): )

**/some/directory/on/your/computer/index.html**

    <html>
    <head>
        <title>Welcome to my website!</title>
        <style>
            body {
                background-color: #cecece;
            }
        </style>
    </head>
    <body>
        <!-- This is a comment. It won't show in the website because
             it has these arrows around it. -->

        <!-- Header text: <h1>...</h1> will make your text big -->
        <h1>Hi, welcome to my website!</h1>

        <!-- <p>...</p> stands for "paragraph" and puts space around
             the text you put inside it. -->
        <p>
            My name is Miles. Here's a picture of my friends:
        </p>


        <!-- This is how you insert an image. You need to make sure the
             filename in quotes exists. Here we have "friends.png" which
             is a file in the same directory as this. -->
        <img src="http://codenewhaven.github.io/pathways-workshop/friends.png" />

        <!-- This is another paragraph. -->
        <p>
            I hope we can teach you some cool things.
            For instance, check out this spinning cube!
        </p>

        <!-- Here's another paragraph. -->
        <p>
            <!-- And this is a link inside the paragraph. -->
            <a href="cube.html">Click here to see my cube!</a>
            <br />
            <a href="www.google.com">Or, click here to go to Google!</a>
        </p>
    </body>
    </html>

The code above is the source code powering the example website:

http://codenewhaven.github.io/pathways-workshop/

If you copy and paste that code into a file on your computer, and save it as
`index.html`, then you will see the same thing when you open the browser.

### Try it yourself! Make a simple webpage.

Here's what you do:

    1. Create a file in the directory you just made, called "index.html"

    2. Open "index.html" in a text editor (we'll show you how to do this)

    3. Copy and paste the code above into the text editor

    4. Go into your browser, and File -> Open, then select the file

    There's your webpage!

Don't worry, we're going to show you how to do all of this.

Please let us know any questions you have!

### Play around with it!

Try playing around with the code in your webpage. Make some changes, and
see what happens to your website. Here are some ideas:

- Change the title.
    - What happens if you change the text in between `<title>...</title>` ?
- Make some text bold
    - Try changing `My name is Miles` to `<b>My name is Miles</b>`. What happens?
- Add some more space in between the links
    - What happens when you change `<br />` to `<br /><br /><br /><br /><br />` ?
- Break the page
    - What happens when you delete `</h1>`? Why?

### Next step -- advanced stuff!

If you want to try some advanced stuff, like adding a spinning cube in your
browser, you can copy and paste the code from the example website

    - [Example Website Code](https://github.com/codenewhaven/pathways-workshop/blob/gh-pages/)

For details on what that is, you can checkout the tutorial we made for our
students at MBA:

    - [Javascript Tutorial](https://github.com/codenewhaven/mba-website/blob/master/javascript.md#goal)


## 3. Publishing the Website

Now, we want to create a **repository** on our computer to hold our web page. To do this, click on the `+` sign in the upper left-hand corner of the window. In the name field, enter `<your-username>.github.io` where `<your-username>` is the username for the GitHub account you've just created. Once you've entered the repository name, hit the `Enter` key or click "Create repository".

Your new repository should show up on the lefthand side of the GitHub application window. Right-click on it and **select `Open in Explorer`** to open up our repository in Windows Explorer.

**Drag and drop** your website's files from the Desktop to your repository folder.

Commit message:

update publishing section of README

README.md, after:

# Welcome, Pathways Students!

Quicklinks within this document:

- [Welcome!](#welcome-pathways-students)
    - [Today's Agenda](#workshop-agenda)
    - [Your Instructors](#your-instructors-today)
    - [Examples! MBA Student Websites](#mba-student-websites)
- [Tutorial](#tutorial)
    - [Setup](#1-setup)
    - [Building Website](#2-building-webpage)
    - [Pushing Code](#3-pushing-code)

Other helpful things:

- [Example Website](http://codenewhaven.github.io/pathways-workshop/)
- [Code for example website](https://github.com/codenewhaven/pathways-workshop/tree/gh-pages)

External resources (HTML help):

- http://webhelp.org/html/
- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML
- http://www.webmonkey.com/2010/02/html_cheatsheet/
- http://www.w3schools.com/tags/

Thanks for coming to our workshop! You're here today because you want to learn
to code.

We only have two hours with you, so we won't be able to show you how to
build the next Facebook, but we will be able to show you that coding is
not as hard as you might think. By the end of the workshop, you should
having a working website that you can show to your friends and family.

Our goal is to give you the confidence that if you want to learn to code,
you can do it. It's not hard.

## Workshop Agenda

We are going to show you what you need to do on the projector, and then
you're going to do it! Don't worry about reading this whole document -- the
content is here for you to peruse on your own time. Just do what we show you
and you'll be good. If you need more details, you can always read this.

Start Time  | End Time| Content
------------- | -------------| -------------
3:00  | 3:15| Settle in, introductions, etc
3:15  | 3:45| Quick lecture, overview of what you will do.
3:45  | 4:00 | Break
4:00  | 4:45 | Build your website
4:45  | 5:00 | Publish your website on the Internet!

Don't worry if this document looks really confusing! We are going to spend
the first 30 minutes showing you everything you need to do. Then, you're
going to do it! And we're here to help you, so we'll be walking around
between computers to answer any questions you have.

## Your Instructors Today
![Your Instructors](img/whobanner.png)

We started Code New Haven, which is an organization dedicated to teaching
high schoolers from New Haven how to code. This semester we have been
teaching a class at Metro Business Academy (MBA) how to code websites.

**PLEASE ASK US ANY QUESTIONS YOU HAVE! We're here to help you!!!**

## MBA Student Websites

Here are some of the websites the MBA kids have made!

- <http://laavila.github.io/>
- <http://creeperfan5236.github.io/>
- <http://spectryn.github.io/mywebsite%20copy%202.HTML>
- <http://mynamesmari.github.io/ImarisWebsite.html>
- <http://deondre.github.io/cubes.html>
- <http://maxjoyner.github.io/cubes.html>
- <http://brittneyfuller.github.io/>

They're a work in progress, but a great start! By the end of today, you're
all going to have a website like this.

# Tutorial

Don't worry if this all looks confusing. We're going to go over it with you
for the first 30 minutes, and then we're here to help.

The goal today is to build a website for yourself. Here's an example
of what you're going to build:

Here's an example of what you are going to build today:

- <http://codenewhaven.github.io/pathways-workshop>

You can see all the **source code** for this website here:

- <https://github.com/codenewhaven/pathways-workshop/tree/gh-pages>

In the next hour, this is what you're going to do:

1. Setup
    1. Create an account on **GitHub** (that's this website)

    2. Create a **GitHub repository** for yourself.

    3. **Clone** the repository, so you have a **directory** on your computer.

2. Building Webpage

    1. Create some **HTML files** in the repository.

    2. Open the HTML files in your browser -- that's your website!!

3. Pushing Code

    1. **Push the code to github** so anyone can see it! :)

If any of this looks confusing to you now, don't worry, it won't be soon!
It's actually all very simple.

### IF THIS LOOKS LIKE A LOT OF TEXT, DON'T WORRY!!
- You don't have to read all of it now. It might help you later.
- We are going to show you how to do everything you need to do.
- If you have questions, just ask us!

## 1. Setup

First, we're going to **make an account** on [GitHub](http://www.github.com), so go ahead and click on that link and follow the steps to ceate an accout. Make sure to either write down or remember your password, as we'll need it later.

Next, we need to **install GitHub for Windows** on our machines, so we can develop locally (on these computers). The download page can be found [here](https://windows.github.com/). Click on the download link and follow the instructions to install.

Then, **open the GitHub application**. We can find the application either on the Desktop or by hitting the Windows key (between Ctrl and Alt on your keyboard) and typing in "github" followed by hitting the `Enter` key. Once you've opened the application, go ahead and sign in using the account you've just created. 

Now that we're signed in, you can close the GitHub application. We'll come back to it later when it's time to publish.

## 2. Building Webpage

Now we're ready to build your webpage!

### Hang on, what's a webpage?!

- A webpage is just a file, that ends in `.html`, like `index.html`
    - A word document is also a file, e.g. `youressay.docx`
    - Images are files too, e.g. `funnycat.jpg` or `l0lzkitten.gif`
- The important part is the **file extension** e.g. `.html` or `.docx` or `.jpg`
    - Your computer decides what to do with the file based on the extension
    - When it sees `.jpg` or `.gif` it knows to show you an image
    - When it sees `.docx` it knows to open microsoft word
    - When it sees `.html` it knows to open your browser and show you a webpage!

An HTML file looks like this:

(Don't worry -- you don't need to understand all of this!)

(You can also find this file [here](https://github.com/codenewhaven/pathways-workshop/blob/gh-pages/index.html): )

**/some/directory/on/your/computer/index.html**

    <html>
    <head>
        <title>Welcome to my website!</title>
        <style>
            body {
                background-color: #cecece;
            }
        </style>
    </head>
    <body>
        <!-- This is a comment. It won't show in the website because
             it has these arrows around it. -->

        <!-- Header text: <h1>...</h1> will make your text big -->
        <h1>Hi, welcome to my website!</h1>

        <!-- <p>...</p> stands for "paragraph" and puts space around
             the text you put inside it. -->
        <p>
            My name is Miles. Here's a picture of my friends:
        </p>


        <!-- This is how you insert an image. You need to make sure the
             filename in quotes exists. Here we have "friends.png" which
             is a file in the same directory as this. -->
        <img src="http://codenewhaven.github.io/pathways-workshop/friends.png" />

        <!-- This is another paragraph. -->
        <p>
            I hope we can teach you some cool things.
            For instance, check out this spinning cube!
        </p>

        <!-- Here's another paragraph. -->
        <p>
            <!-- And this is a link inside the paragraph. -->
            <a href="cube.html">Click here to see my cube!</a>
            <br />
            <a href="www.google.com">Or, click here to go to Google!</a>
        </p>
    </body>
    </html>

The code above is the source code powering the example website:

http://codenewhaven.github.io/pathways-workshop/

If you copy and paste that code into a file on your computer, and save it as
`index.html`, then you will see the same thing when you open the browser.

### Try it yourself! Make a simple webpage.

Here's what you do:

    1. Create a file in the directory you just made, called "index.html"

    2. Open "index.html" in a text editor (we'll show you how to do this)

    3. Copy and paste the code above into the text editor

    4. Go into your browser, and File -> Open, then select the file

    There's your webpage!

Don't worry, we're going to show you how to do all of this.

Please let us know any questions you have!

### Play around with it!

Try playing around with the code in your webpage. Make some changes, and
see what happens to your website. Here are some ideas:

- Change the title.
    - What happens if you change the text in between `<title>...</title>` ?
- Make some text bold
    - Try changing `My name is Miles` to `<b>My name is Miles</b>`. What happens?
- Add some more space in between the links
    - What happens when you change `<br />` to `<br /><br /><br /><br /><br />` ?
- Break the page
    - What happens when you delete `</h1>`? Why?

### Next step -- advanced stuff!

If you want to try some advanced stuff, like adding a spinning cube in your
browser, you can copy and paste the code from the example website

[Example Website Code](https://github.com/codenewhaven/pathways-workshop/blob/gh-pages/)

For details on what that is, you can checkout the tutorial we made for our
students at MBA:

[Javascript Tutorial](https://github.com/codenewhaven/mba-website/blob/master/javascript.md#goal)


## 3. Publishing the Website

Let's start by opening the GitHub for Windows application again. The application should already be signed into your GitHub account, per the Setup section of this tutorial we've already completed.

We want to create a **repository** on our computer to hold our web page. To do this, click on the `+` sign in the upper left-hand corner of the window. In the name field, enter `<your-username>.github.io` where `<your-username>` is the username for the GitHub account you've just created. Once you've entered the repository name, hit the `Enter` key or click "Create repository".

Your new repository should show up on the lefthand side of the GitHub application window. Right-click on it and **select `Open in Explorer`** to open up our repository in Windows Explorer.

**Drag and drop** your website's files from the Desktop into your repository folder.

Go back to the GitHub application, and click on the top `Uncomitted changes` section in your repository. Enter "initial commit" or some other message into the `Summary` field. You can fill in the `Description` field if you like, but it's not necessary. 

Click on `Commit to master` or hit the `Enter` key to commit your changes. 

Finally, click `Publish repository`, which can be found in the upper righthand corner of the GitHub application. 

Congratulations! You've just published your own personal web page to The wonderful, worldwide web. You can find your web page at [http://<your-username>.github.io](http://www.github.com) where `<your-username>` is replaced with your GitHub username.

## 4. Further Steps

The cool thing about GitHub is that you can access your code from wherever you have an internet connection. You can also "pull" your code to work on it on your own (or any) computer locally. After you've made your changes (adding other pages, beautifying your indes.html, ect) you can then `push` your changes to update your site online. Lather, Rinse, Repeat until you've made the next Facebook!

Some helpful links:
[w3schools](http://www.w3schools.com/)
[GitHub tutorial](http://readwrite.com/2013/09/30/understanding-github-a-journey-for-beginners-part-1)
